Add Rust interview with Luca Palmieri (#2069)
mainmatter/mainmatter.com: src/posts/2023-06-28-present-and-future-of-rust-with-luca-palmieri.md

---
title:
  "Adopting Rust: present and future of the Rust Web Ecosystem - with Luca
  Palmieri"
authorHandle: marcoow
tags: [rust]
bio: "Marco Otte-Witte"
description:
  "Luca Palmieri and Marco Otte-Witte discuss the present and future of the Rust
  Web Ecosystem."
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2023-06-28-present-and-future-of-rust-with-luca-palmieri/og-image.jpg
tagline: |

>   <p>Rust has become more popular among web developers in recent years. In this interview, Luca Palmieri, Senior Software Engineer at Mainmatter and Rust author, and Marco Otte-Witte, Founder of Maimatter, delved into the world of backend development with Rust, examining the state of the ecosystem, the challenges it faces, and the success stories it generated.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>Rust has become more popular among web developers in recent years. In this interview, Luca Palmieri, Principal Engineering Consultant at Mainmatter and Rust author, and Marco Otte-Witte, Founder of Maimatter, delved into the world of backend development with Rust, examining the state of the ecosystem, the challenges it faces, and the success stories it generated.</p>
```

image: "/assets/images/posts/2023-06-28-present-and-future-of-rust-with-luca-palmieri/header-illustration.jpg"
imageAlt: "The Rust logo on a gray background"
---

Luca shared his personal experience with Rust adoption, starting with his work
at TrueLayer, where he successfully transitioned from a predominantly C#
environment to Rust, driven by the need for better maintainability, correctness,
scalability, and latency. Despite initial concerns about hiring and lacking
expertise, the project was a success, leading to enhanced job satisfaction,
streamlined recruitment, and the creation of reliable and performant services.

> Luca then talked about his book "Zero to Production in Rust: An introduction to
> backend development in Rust" with which he aimed to bridge the gap between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luca then talked about his book "Zero To Production In Rust: An Introduction To
Backend Development" with which he aimed to bridge the gap between
```

see https://www.zero2prod.com/index.html

code in critical products and services, Luca explained. Projects like
Firecracker and the AWS SDK for Rust highlight the language's potential and
AWS's belief in its usefulness.

While the challenges stemming from constantly evolving libraries and new
versions persist, Rust has consistently demonstrated its potential for web
services. Due to its expressive type system, safety features, and exceptional
performance, the Rust Web ecosystem is currently gaining momentum, Luca and
Marco agreed. With the continued investment from industry leaders like AWS, the
ecosystem is certainly set to continue evolving in the future.

Rust's appeal is undeniable, positioning it as a compelling choice for a wide
range of applications. As Rust continues to integrate into libraries and
frameworks across ecosystems, developers increasingly reap the benefits of its
power. Whether seeking predictable performance, improved scalability, or reduced
infrastructure costs, Rust is a versatile language to consider when building
high-performance and robust software solutions.

Check out the full interview below and don’t hesitate to contact us to learn how
your company could benefit from adopting Rust.

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/Xb7NokhAVKI" title="Embedded video of Luca's interview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: This doesn'T seem to work – check the preview

Author: Yeah, I've commented above. The link is correct, just the iframe doesn't work, but I copied it from Chris and not sure how to fix it

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/Xb7NokhAVKI" title="Embedded video of Luca's interview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/Xb7NokhAVKI" title="Embedded video of Luca's interview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you're looking to adopt Rust to develop web backends and need guidance along the way, [get in touch](/contact/) We offer [team augmentation, mentoring, as well as development with Rust](/rust-consulting/).
```

code in critical products and services, Luca explained. Projects like
Firecracker and the AWS SDK for Rust highlight the language's potential and
AWS's belief in its usefulness.

While the challenges stemming from constantly evolving libraries and new
versions persist, Rust has consistently demonstrated its potential for web
services. Due to its expressive type system, safety features, and exceptional
performance, the Rust Web ecosystem is currently gaining momentum, Luca and
Marco agreed. With the continued investment from industry leaders like AWS, the
ecosystem is certainly set to continue evolving in the future.

Rust's appeal is undeniable, positioning it as a compelling choice for a wide
range of applications. As Rust continues to integrate into libraries and
frameworks across ecosystems, developers increasingly reap the benefits of its
power. Whether seeking predictable performance, improved scalability, or reduced
infrastructure costs, Rust is a versatile language to consider when building
high-performance and robust software solutions.

Check out the full interview below and don’t hesitate to contact us to learn how
your company could benefit from adopting Rust.

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/Xb7NokhAVKI" title="Embedded video of Luca's interview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Xb7NokhAVKI?rel=0" title="Embedded video of Luca's interview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```
